Team Contract
================

## Expectations

The time expected for group members to work on DSCI 522 will be a
maximum of 6 hours unless all the team members agree to lengthen the
time expected. If team members cannot complete their sections within the
maximum hours, members should give notice on Slack at least 24 hours
before the group submission date (Saturday 6am) to see if work should be
redistributed or if the expected time should be increased.

All submissions are expected to meet the criteria of the milestones as
set out in the instructions. This includes making sure all scripts are
working, creating tests for all your functions, and using proper grammar
in written submissions.

## Meetings

Meeting times were established during the initial team meeting held on
2021-11-19. Meetings will be held in or meet outside the location of
lab02 on the following dates:

Monday 11/22: 4-5pm

Thursday 11/25: 2-4pm

Monday 11/29: 4-5pm

Thursday 12/2: 2-4pm

Monday 12/6: 4-5pm

Thursday 12/9: 2-4pm

The group could arrange to have ad-hoc meeting on Slack or in-person in
between the set schedule. All members are expected to attend the
meetings. If a member cannot make a meeting, written notice must be
given before the meeting by 10 a.m. on the day to discuss alternative options.

## Communication

All communication outside of the meetings will be through Slack or
Github. Github will be the primary communication tool for ideas,
suggestions, submitting work and reviewing work. Slack will be the
primary communication tool for informal communication and scheduling
meetings.

## Reviews

All members are expected to submit a pull request for their work on the
repository for the group project on Github.com. Members are expected to
add teammates as reviewers to have all pull request reviewed by another
teammate. Pull request should be reviewed within 24 hours after
creation.

## Roles

There are two roles team members will be responsible for each week. The
roles are as follows:

1.  Scribe: Responsible for taking notes at the meetings and in-class
    lab sessions and adding as a GitHub issue.

Responsible for sharing with all notes and in-class activities to
teammates.

2.  Proof-reader:

Responsible for doing a final check of the submission before the
deadline to make sure all requirements are satisfied.

Positions will be rotated each week to ensure that each team member does
each position once.

## Deadlines

Deadlines for individual items will be assigned during meetings. The
proof-reader will review the work on Saturday and ensure that the final
version is ready for submission and create the required version tag.

## Breach of Contract

Failure to follow the team contract will result in a three-step warning
system:

The first step is a written Slack notice that outlines the violation of
the team contract and a reminder of the team contract conditions.

The second step is a meeting to discuss the behaviour and write an
agreement to follow the team contract is required by the member.

The third step is to reach out to the lab instructor or TAs of the
issues with the teammate
